The ability to find a similar set of images for a given image has multiple use-cases from visual search to duplicate product detection to domain specific image clustering. Especially in Google’s Reverse Image Search where the search engine retrieves similar images to your query image.
The capital city of the Saxony region, Dresden was a pleasant surprise. The city is compact enough to aimlessly explore on foot, and the grand Baroque architecture, which was restored (and in some case, is still being repaired) following the extensive damage of the war makes this a worthy European city break to rival some of the other grand cities in central Europe. Although it might not be as large as some of these other cities, the depth of arts, culinary creativity and the emerging street-art scene here make it a great long weekend destination.
I've long believed that breaks are essential for a productive workday, which is why G and I have always made an effort to take an hour away from our desks for lunch, whenever possible. Recently though, our entire office has gotten into the habit of ordering-in or picking up lunch, which we inevitably bring back to our desks to eat. It's not a healthy habit, but it's also no coincidence that my recent decision to finally break this pattern and head out for lunch (in a springtime dress, no less) coincided with the end of one of the longest cold streaks in L.A. history. 
Image similarity is the measure of how similar two images are. In other words, it quantifies the degree of similarity between intensity patterns in two images.
Initially, image similarity models considered category-level image similarity. For example, two images are considered similar as long as they belong to the same category. This category-level image similarity is not sufficient for the search-by-example image search application. Search by query image requires the distinction of differences between images within the same category- to recognise the fine grained differences in the similar images.
If your budget won’t stretch to tropical beaches (where with monsoons to battle with in the likes of Bali you’ll still end up wet) then Portugal’s Algarve Coast is your best bet.
Exploring Europe is super easy thanks to both how close countries are, and also the Schengen zone making bus travel between cities sometimes the best routes at the most affordable prices. To hunt for timetables make use of the Omio app and website (formerly GoEuro) which allows you to search and book trains, buses and flights in Europe and is a great tool to help you plan, especially given there can be many different bus operators on each route.
Milan is a magical city and in the winter, when the crowds die down around the Duomo and the crisp winter air brings snow to the mountain peaks surrounding the city, it becomes even more special. Ignoring the truly special Christmas markets and lights that bring the city to light, the various regions of Milan with their outside heated tables or the old charms and warmth of the Osteria restaurants, tick all the right boxes.
One way of buiding image similarity model is to extract features such as Gabor filters, SIFT [1], Local Binary Patterns, HOG [2] and then use these feature to compute the similarity between the features. The other way is to use deep learning model to aid in identifying similar images for a query image. Today, we will talk about a model called Deep Ranking [3], which learns fine-grained image similarity by characterising the fine-grained image similarity relationship with a set of triplets.
This month, we're all making an effort to get out more and take advantage of L.A.'s beautiful weather. While we're celebrating Pi Day in the office with a pie bake-off (and G's brilliant contribution: a pizza), we'll be topping it off with a walk around the block before diving back into inboxes and projects. It's amazing what just a few minutes of fresh air (and a de-caff iced coffee) can do.
A triplet contains a query image, a positive image, and a negative image, where the positive image is more similar to the query image than the negative image. The below image illustrates this:
In the above image, each column is a triplet. The upper, middle and lower rows correspond to query image, positive image, and negative image- where the positive image is more similar to the query image that the negative image.
Nowhere is that truer than in the Ore Mountains and Seiffen, an old mining town which is full of Christmas shops and has a long tradition of producing wooden toys. Whether you visit the Christmas markets, take part in old miners festive traditions such as feasts, parades or underground concerts in mines, a visit to Saxony in December will give you all the Christmas feels but without the crowds of say, Prague.
I grew up in a house of decidedly un-minimalist, un-strategic packers. My mom and I would procrastinate packing until the evening before (okay, hours before) a flight, at which point we'd go through our time-honored pre-trip ritual of panic-shoving everything we could fit into the biggest duffel bags we could find. Sometimes (okay, often) tears were shed. I remember my mom once devoting an entire rolling carry-on to her toiletries and medicine, despite the fact that she uses very few of either, and we were traveling to visit and stay with family, who I'm sure had the requisite cold medicine, on the off-chance we needed it. But she isn't the only guilty party: I once packed five bathing suits and neglected to bring a single pair of underwear (my bikini bottoms pulled double-duty).
The image similarity relationship is characterized by relative similarity ordering in the triplets. Deep ranking models can employ this fine-grained image similarity information, which is not considered in category-level image similarity models or classification models, to achieve better performance.
Let’s say you are looking at three cars parked in a road- a black car, a white car and a dark-gray car. For image classification models, these three cars are all just cars. It doesn’t concern itself with the colour and other aspect of the car. For a similar image ranking model, it would look at the colours and other aspects of the cars as well. If a query image is a “black car”, the similar image ranking model would rank the “dark gray car” higher than the “white car”. Due to this, image classification models may not fit directly to task of distinguishing fine-grained image similarity. The authors of the Deep Ranking paper propose to learn fine-grained image similarity with a deep ranking model, which characterizes the fine-grained image similarity relationship with a set of triplets.
The offseason is the best time to visit Europe and pretend it is your own private playground. Whilst the famous cities of London and Paris never really lose the crowds, here are a few trade-offs I am sure you will fall in love that are (nearly) free from selfie stick attacks and queues long enough to be a flight time during the offseason.
I was recently looking through photos from studying abroad in Copenhagen almost seven years ago, and was shocked to realize I brought three fifty-pound bags for my few months there. How is that even possible, when I also remember having "nothing to wear"? After KonMari-ing my closet last year, I no longer own enough clothes to fill one fifty-pound bag, let alone three. Yet, I rarely feel like I have nothing to wear. As it turns out, when you take time to curate your closet, it can feel like you have more, not less—and the same applies to packing! Thanks in part to a minimalist boyfriend (who regularly packs only half a carry-on) and a general hatred of waiting for checked baggage, I've honed my packing to a science (remember this?). Here's how I'm packing my carry-on and purse for eight days in Europe next week, with no shortage of cute outfits:
The metric used to measure the similarity between images is probably the most important thing in building image similarity models. While there are different metrics one can use to define the similarity, the most popular ones are L1-norm (also known as Manhattan distance) and L2 norm( also known as Euclidean distance). This paper gives a really good explanation and a comparison between Manhattan and Euclidean distance in the context of image similarity. Their results suggest that, in the domain of natural images of the kind we have used, the Manhattan distance may better capture the human notions of image similarity. In the case of Deep Ranking, the authors have used Squared Euclidean distance as the similarity metric. The smaller the distance the more similar the images are.
Neural Networks are universal function approximators. The whole Deep Ranking architecture can be thought of as a function that would map the image to a point in the Euclidean space. The goal is to learn an embedding function that assigns smaller distance to more similar images. This can be expressed as :
Here, ‘f’ is the embedding function to would map the image to a vector. Pi is the query image, Pi+ is the positive image, Pi- is the negative image and ‘r’ is the similarity distance between two images.
This network takes image triplets as input. One image triplet contains a query image ‘pi’ , a positive image ‘pi+’ and a negative image ‘pi-’ , which are fed independently into three identical deep neural networks ‘f(.)’ with shared architecture and parameters. A triplet characterizes the relative similarity relationship for the three images. The deep neural network ‘f(.)’ computes the embedding of an image ‘pi’ : f(pi) ∈ Rd , where ‘d’ is the dimension of the feature embedding, and ‘R’ represents the Real number space.
The ranking layer on the top evaluates the hinge loss of a triplet. During learning, it evaluates the model’s violation of the ranking order, and back-propagates the gradients to the lower layers so that the lower layers can adjust their parameters to minimize the ranking loss.
While there is no denying that winter sea swimming is reserved for the fearless, there is still some good surf and sun-kissed days to be had. With over 300 sunny days a year and heavily discounted prices outside summer, the off-season in the Algarve is a good gamble to get your winter Vitamin C.
The ConvNet encodes strong invariance and captures the image semantics. The other two parts of the network take down-sampled images and use shallow network architecture. Those two parts have less invariance and capture the visual appearance. Finally, we normalize the embeddings from the three parts, and combine them with a linear embedding layer.
A convolutional layer takes an image or the feature maps of another layer as input, convolves it with a set of ‘k’ learnable kernels, and puts through the activation function to generate ‘k’ feature maps. The convolutional layer can be considered as a set of local feature detectors.
A local normalization layer normalizes the feature map around a local neighborhood to have unit norm and zero mean. It leads to feature maps that are robust to the differences in illumination and contrast.
While the height of summer and the month bring in the crowds, Dresden doesn’t yet seem as discovered as Munich, Cologne and Berlin which means you can marvel at the architecture, enjoy your winter Gluhwein and get lost in countless galleries and museums without having to face an army of fellow tourists.