The ability to find a similar set of images for a given image has multiple use-cases from visual search to duplicate product detection to domain specific image clustering. Especially in Google’s Reverse Image Search where the search engine retrieves similar images to your query image.
I've long believed that breaks are essential for a productive workday, which is why G and I have always made an effort to take an hour away from our desks for lunch, whenever possible. Recently though, our entire office has gotten into the habit of ordering-in or picking up lunch, which we inevitably bring back to our desks to eat. It's not a healthy habit, but it's also no coincidence that my recent decision to finally break this pattern and head out for lunch (in a springtime dress, no less) coincided with the end of one of the longest cold streaks in L.A. history. 
Image similarity is the measure of how similar two images are. In other words, it quantifies the degree of similarity between intensity patterns in two images.
Initially, image similarity models considered category-level image similarity. For example, two images are considered similar as long as they belong to the same category. This category-level image similarity is not sufficient for the search-by-example image search application. Search by query image requires the distinction of differences between images within the same category- to recognise the fine grained differences in the similar images.
One way of buiding image similarity model is to extract features such as Gabor filters, SIFT [1], Local Binary Patterns, HOG [2] and then use these feature to compute the similarity between the features. The other way is to use deep learning model to aid in identifying similar images for a query image. Today, we will talk about a model called Deep Ranking [3], which learns fine-grained image similarity by characterising the fine-grained image similarity relationship with a set of triplets.
This month, we're all making an effort to get out more and take advantage of L.A.'s beautiful weather. While we're celebrating Pi Day in the office with a pie bake-off (and G's brilliant contribution: a pizza), we'll be topping it off with a walk around the block before diving back into inboxes and projects. It's amazing what just a few minutes of fresh air (and a de-caff iced coffee) can do.
A triplet contains a query image, a positive image, and a negative image, where the positive image is more similar to the query image than the negative image. The below image illustrates this:
In the above image, each column is a triplet. The upper, middle and lower rows correspond to query image, positive image, and negative image- where the positive image is more similar to the query image that the negative image.
I grew up in a house of decidedly un-minimalist, un-strategic packers. My mom and I would procrastinate packing until the evening before (okay, hours before) a flight, at which point we'd go through our time-honored pre-trip ritual of panic-shoving everything we could fit into the biggest duffel bags we could find. Sometimes (okay, often) tears were shed. I remember my mom once devoting an entire rolling carry-on to her toiletries and medicine, despite the fact that she uses very few of either, and we were traveling to visit and stay with family, who I'm sure had the requisite cold medicine, on the off-chance we needed it. But she isn't the only guilty party: I once packed five bathing suits and neglected to bring a single pair of underwear (my bikini bottoms pulled double-duty).
The image similarity relationship is characterized by relative similarity ordering in the triplets. Deep ranking models can employ this fine-grained image similarity information, which is not considered in category-level image similarity models or classification models, to achieve better performance.
Let’s say you are looking at three cars parked in a road- a black car, a white car and a dark-gray car. For image classification models, these three cars are all just cars. It doesn’t concern itself with the colour and other aspect of the car. For a similar image ranking model, it would look at the colours and other aspects of the cars as well. If a query image is a “black car”, the similar image ranking model would rank the “dark gray car” higher than the “white car”. Due to this, image classification models may not fit directly to task of distinguishing fine-grained image similarity. The authors of the Deep Ranking paper propose to learn fine-grained image similarity with a deep ranking model, which characterizes the fine-grained image similarity relationship with a set of triplets.
I was recently looking through photos from studying abroad in Copenhagen almost seven years ago, and was shocked to realize I brought three fifty-pound bags for my few months there. How is that even possible, when I also remember having "nothing to wear"? After KonMari-ing my closet last year, I no longer own enough clothes to fill one fifty-pound bag, let alone three. Yet, I rarely feel like I have nothing to wear. As it turns out, when you take time to curate your closet, it can feel like you have more, not less—and the same applies to packing! Thanks in part to a minimalist boyfriend (who regularly packs only half a carry-on) and a general hatred of waiting for checked baggage, I've honed my packing to a science (remember this?). Here's how I'm packing my carry-on and purse for eight days in Europe next week, with no shortage of cute outfits: